[slide]
# Java Language
# Programming Languages
A **programming language** is an artificial language (syntax for expression), meant for giving commands that we want the computer to read, process and execute. 

Using programming languages, we write sequences of commands (programs), which define what the computer should do. 

Examples of programming languages are C#, Java, JavaScript, Python, C, C++, PHP, Swift, Go and many others. 

These languages differ in their philosophy, syntax, purpose, programming constructions and execution environment. 

The execution of computer programs can be done with a compiler or with an interpreter.

# Compilers
The compiler **translates the code from programming language to machine code**, as for each of the constructions (commands) in the code it chooses a proper, previously prepared fragment of machine code and in the meantime it checks the text of the program for errors. 

Together, the compiled fragments comprise the program into a machine code, as the microprocessor of the 
computer expects it.

# Interpreters
The interpreter is "a program for executing programs", written in some programming language. 

It **executes the commands in the program one after another**, as it understands not only a single 
command and sequences of commands, but also other language constructions.

Languages are either **compiled** (like Java, C#, C++) or **interpreted** (like JavaScript and Python)

The **compiler** translates programming code to **machine code**

* During the compilation, it finds syntax errors

The **interpreter** executes the code line by line

* It finds syntax errors at runtime
[/slide]

[slide]
# The Java Language
**Java** is modern, general purpose programming language

* Used for creating Web apps, mobile apps, games, back-end apps

**Object-oriented**

* **Java** programs consists of classes, which hold **methods**

Good choice for **beginners**

* Easy syntax, easy to read, **easy to learn**
* Big developer **community**, many jobs
* Lots of **resources**: books, lessons, courses

[/slide]

[slide]
# Java Compilation and Execution
Java is a **high-level language**, which is **compiled**

A program in Java is written in text format (**source code**)

The **class files** generated by the compiler are independent of the machine or the OS

* Can run on **any** system, e.g. compile in Windows, run in Linux
[/slide]

[slide]
# JDK and JRE
JDK – Java Development Toolkit

* Java software development kit (Java SDK) – toolset for developers
* Includes a **virtual machine** (JVM), a **Java compiler** (javac) and other developer tools
* JDK is available for free download from Oracle: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/

JDK should not be confused for a runtime environment (JRE)

* JRE allow to **run** Java programs, but can't **develop own programs**
[/slide]

[slide]
# Video

[vimeo-video videoId="342593690" startTimeInSeconds="3111" endTimeInSeconds="4030" /]

[/slide]